[IS-10] Alter Private Claim Syntax and add JWT schema (#11)
AMWA-TV/nmos-authorization: docs/4.3. Behaviour - Tokens.md

> # Behaviour: Access Tokens

Reviewer: Could you rename the file too?

of this claim MUST exactly match the full client identifier to which the token was granted.

### scope
_List of scopes associated with the token_

The `scope` claim SHOULD be included in the token, if the authorization request included a scope parameter, as per
Section 2.2.2 of the draft RFC [Profile for OAuth 2.0 Access Tokens]. The value of the "scope" claim is a JSON string
containing a space-separated list of scopes associated with the token, in the format described in Section 3.3 of
[RFC6749][RFC-6749].

## Private Claims

[RFC 7519][RFC-7519] allows for "private claims". The following claim is used to identify the API specification a given
token is used for.

### x-nmos-api
_Contains information particular to the NMOS API the token is intended for_

The `x-nmos-api` claim MUST be included in the token. The value of the claim is a JSON object, the contents of which
are `key:value` pairs, with the `key` identifying an individual AMWA NMOS API using the namespace identifier found in
the URL for that given API (e.g. "registration", "query", etc.), and the `value` being a JSON object indicating access

> permissions for that API. An empty `x-nmos-api` claim MUST indicate no access to any of the APIs. A missing API key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permissions for that API. An empty `x-nmos-api` object MUST indicate no access to any of the APIs. A missing API key
```

MUST indicate no access to that specific API.

#### The Access Permissions Object
The value of each NMOS API key is the access permissions object for the given user for that specific API. The access
permission object consists of `key:value` pairs in which the `key` denotes a specific access right. General access
rights include:
*   **write** - ability to insert a new, or edit an existing, resource. This takes the form of *POST*, *PUT*,
    *PATCH* and *DELETE* HTTP request verbs.
*   **read** - ability to retrieve the resource. This takes the form of *GET*, *OPTIONS* and *HEAD* HTTP request
    verbs.

> If a specific access right is not permitted for a given user, the access right MUST be omitted, to prevent token bloat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a specific access right is not permitted for a given user, the access right MUST be omitted, to minimise the token size.
```

> If all access rights are not permitted for a given API, the API key MUST be removed from the `x-nmos-api` claim, to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no access rights are permitted for a given API, the API key MUST be removed from the `x-nmos-api` claim, to
```

ensure token size is minimised.

If an access right value of "write" is given in the access permission object, and the intention is that the given user
also has "read" access to the given API, a value of "read" MUST also be present in the access permissions object.

Individual AMWA specifications MAY specify additional access rights specific to the individual API. These MUST be

> registered in the [AMWA NMOS Parameter Registers].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
registered in the [AMWA NMOS Parameter Registers]. It is recommended that new permissions keys are only introduced alongside a new version of a given AMWA NMOS API in order to minimise the risk of incompatibility.
```

The `value` corresponding to each access right is a JSON array containing URL path specifiers that the user is
permitted to perform the specific request against. Wildcards are permitted in the path specifiers. The means by which
wildcards may be used for pattern matching SHALL align with Section 2.13 of the [POSIX Standard]. For NMOS API
URL's that follow the standard pattern of:

`<api_proto>://<hostname>:<port>/x-nmos/<api type>/<api version>/`

> all path specifiers MUST start _after_ the API version. For example, authorizing a user to read all _single resources_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all path specifiers MUST start _after_ the API version and its trailing slash. For example, authorizing a user to read all _single resources_
```

and modify the configuration of all  _single senders_ at a Connection Management interface would result in an access
permissions object of:

```JSON
"connection": {
  "read": ["single/*"],
  "write": ["single/senders/*"]
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Having thought about it I think we need a MUST NOT for using anything other than a wildcard where an API specifies a 'URL parameter' (ie. a UUID in IS-04, or a channel label in IS-08). Perhaps in this case a resource server SHOULD always respond with a 401. Otherwise you're going to need handling of the tokens to creep into the code that handles lots of specific API paths. Without this you've got a decent chance of keeping token handling logic in common code away from the handling of specific paths.

#### Example `x-nmos-api` Claim
An example of a `x-nmos-api` claim is shown below. This would permit querying an IS-04 Registry, and modifying
_single_ connections via an IS-05 connection management interface, but would not permit the user to register a resource
with an IS-04 Registry.

```json
"x-nmos-api": {
  "registration": {
    "read": ["*"],

>     "write": []

Reviewer: Should 'write' not be removed here to comply with the schema?

  },
  "query": {
    "read": ["*"],
    "write": ["subscriptions/*"]
  },
  "connection": {
    "read": ["*"],
    "write": ["single/*"]
  }
}
```

Authorization Servers MAY only have support for certain NMOS API specifications, and MAY only support certain versions
of such APIs.

## Size Considerations

While [RFC 7519][RFC-7519] does not prescribe a maximum size for an OAuth 2.0 JSON Web Token, it should be noted that
these tokens are typically used within an HTTP header. While HTTP does not define a header size limit, 8KByte is a
common limitation in HTTP server implementations. Specification writers should be mindful of this when designing API
claims, and ensure that enough space is available in the header for both the token and all other HTTP headers.

## Example Access Token Claim Set

```json
{
  "iss": "https://auth.example.com",
  "sub": "username@example.com",
  "aud": "https://node-*.example.com",
  "iat": 1548779460,
  "exp": 1548783060,

>   "scope": "register query connection",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "scope": "registration query connection",
```

  "client_id": "hopy0dNRPNTiGJDqPfqYwGmw",
  "x-nmos-api": {

>     "register": {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "registration": {
```

##### The Access Permissions Object

The value of each NMOS API key is the access permissions object for the given user for that specific API. The access
permission object consists of `key:value` pairs in which the `key` denotes a specific access right. General access
rights include:
*   **write** - ability to insert a new, or edit an existing, resource. This takes the form of *POST*, *PUT*,
    *PATCH* and *DELETE* HTTP request verbs.
*   **read** - ability to retrieve the resource. This takes the form of *GET*, *OPTIONS* and *HEAD* HTTP request
    verbs.

If an access right value of "write" is given in the access permission object, and the intention is that the given user
also has "read" access to the given API, a value of "read" MUST also be present in the access permissions object.

Individual AMWA specifications MAY specify additional access rights specific to the individual API. These MUST be
registered in the [AMWA NMOS Parameter Registers].

The `value` corresponding to each access right is a JSON array containing path specifiers that the user is permitted
to perform the specific request against. Wildcards are permitted in the path specifiers. The path specifiers MUST use

> dot notation to signify specific sub-paths of the endpoint. For NMOS API's following the standard pattern, all path

Reviewer: Is there a reason we're not using slashes? Dots would be fine for now, but it feels like there's a danger of a path accidentally using a dot in the future and confusing things.

specifiers MUST start _after_ the API version.

> For example, authorizing a user to read all _single resources_ and make connections between all _single senders_ at a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, authorizing a user to read all _single resources_ and modify the configuration of all _single senders_ at a
```

Connection Management interface would result in an access permissions object of:

```JSON
"connection": {
  "read": ["single.*"],
  "write": ["single.senders.*"]
}
```

An example of a `x-nmos-api` claim is shown below. This would permit querying an IS-04 Registry, and making
_single_ connections via an IS-05 connection management interface, but would not permit the user to register a resource
with an IS-04 Registry.

```json
"x-nmos-api": {

>   "register": {

Reviewer: `register` may need changing to `registration`. We'd probably best consistently match the snippet of the path from the URL of each API.

    "read": ["*"],

>     "write": []

Reviewer: Are 'read' and 'write' mandatory with optional array contents? We should state this explicitly if so. I do wonder however if we should allow read/write to be completely omitted in case other claims are defined in the future, otherwise the token will be a little bloated.
